---
layout: post
title: mkub002
---

To do:
find out what stage mkub002 was
find out what type of dye was used
reduce image file size and add images to document

# Embryo mkub002 imaging

The aim of this work was for me to practice the dissection of and learn techniques involved in staining of the cranial nerves, in particular nerves V (trigeminal), VII (facial), and VIII (vestibulocochlear/auditory).

Embryo "mkub002". Stage ? Work on this embryo began on 16/08/2017, and was completed on 17/08/2017. In this embryo I learned to dissect out the otic vesicle on both sides of the embryo, practiced dissection to expose cranial nerves V, VII and VIII, and learned the techniques involved in staining these cranial nerves.


16/08/2017 (Week 4 Wednesday)

Prior to asof coming into the lab on 16/08/2017, MFK had dissected, stained and incubated embryo "mfk_002", but had not yet removed the hindbrain from the rest of the body and put it in glycerol.
asof and MFK dissected mkub002, using this embryo to teach asof how to dissect out the otic vesicle and find the triangular 8th nerve ganglion underneath the otic vesicle. The circular facial nerve ganglion sits superficial to the 8th nerve ganglion - asof and MFK dissected so that this was also visible.

Asof took photographs of mkub002 using the fluorescence microscope (Model: Leica M205 FA), as detailed below. Saved in location (C:\Users\mkub003\Desktop\Fabiana Images - this is only accessible on the computer next to the fluorescence microscope).

Picture "mkub002_002" - shows a close up picture of the right (embro p.o.v.) 8th nerve ganglion, and the nerve attached to this ganglion going into the hindbrain. The ganglion is mostly unstained, the stain was only taken up in a small portion of the ganglia, but it was taken up well by the nerve.

Picture "mkub002_003" - shows a low magnification of the same ganglion and nerve (8th, right side embryo p.o.v.) within the context of the rest of the embryo. The trigeminal ganglia are brightly stained. The pins through the eyes are visible. On the left (embryo p.o.v.) is the other 8th ganglion, but it is not well dissected. The facial nerve is just visible on the right (unlabelled circle above the 8th nerve ganglion).

Asof continued to dissect mkub002 to remove all tissue on both sides, except the hindbrain and the trigeminal, 8th and facial nerves. This was done using the fluorescence microscope (Model: Leica M205 FA).
MFK then taught asof how to do liquid dye injections. MFK injected the facial nerve ganglia, and asof then injected the trigeminal ganglia on both sides, using pressure injection with methanol. What type of dye was used? The embryo was then incubated overnight at 37.5 degrees Celcius.

17/08/2017 (Week 4 Thursday)

Asof attempted to visualise mkub002 after having injected dye into the 8th and trigeminal ganglia yesterday (16/08/2017). However, the stain hadn't travelled very far into the nerves, because the embryo had not been incubated for a full 24 hours. asof practiced snipping off the ganglia and cleaning the "single cell" membrane off the hindbrain using the fluorescence microscope. But since the stain hadn't travelled far into the nerves, asof and MFK decided that it was not worth putting the hindbrain through a series of glycerol and visualising it. mkub002 was disposed of.
