---
layout: post
title: asof052
---

# Embryo asof052

The aim of this work was to generate an embryo with labelled VIIIth cranial nerve neurons for use in imaging motor neurons in a wholemount.

Embryo "asof052". Stage 24 (unconfirmed). Work with this embryo began on 20/08/18, and ended on 21/08/18.

Specifics of injection:
- Tried to replicate the injection procedure of asof037 and asof038
- During injection, the needle was pushed into ganglion, and then retracted slightly before ejecting dye (this meant dye could be injected without requiring a great amount of force)
- This embryo was dissected quite carefully so as not to damage or remove the nerve fibres
- As high a volume of dye as possible without majorly damaging the ganglion was injected into each ganglion 
- Large crystals of DiI are still present in the well, so the dye was highly concentrated
- The ganglia were injected from both the medial and the lateral aspect


20/08/18

Asof removed the embryo from 4% pf in PB 0.1M solution and covered the embryo with 0.01M PBS. Asof removed the amniotic sac and staged the embryo according to Hamburger and Hamilton, 1992. The features used to stage the embryo are described below.

## asof052 staging features:
- the shape of the maxillary process of the pharyngeal arches is characteristic of a stage 23
- the shape of protuberance c of the pharyngeal arches is characteristic of a stage 23+ (pointy. receding, but not fully receded)
- the shape of protuberance f of the pharyngeal arches is characteristic of a stage 24
- overall shape and length of the wing and leg buds (24)

Overall, asof052 was put at a stage 24 (unconfirmed).

Asof removed the midbrain and the roof plate of the hindbrain. Asof then dissected to expose the trigeminal and facial ganglia on both sides of the embryo. Asof peeled out the otic vesicle on each side to expose both vestibulocochlear (VIIIth) ganglia. Asof injected both vestibulocochlear ganglia with concentrated red DiI by pressure injection with methanol. The dye was very concentrated, as asof had added large crystals to the well from the bottle of DiI on 11/06/18. A high volume of dye was injected into each vestibulocochlear ganglion, using a technique where the needle was inserted into the ganglion and then retracted slightly before expelling dye, which meant less force was required to expel dye. The left (embryo p.o.v.) vestibulocochlear ganglion was then removed as a control, and the contamination was cleared. There was quite a lot of DiI contamination on the VIIth ganglia, and therefore both of these ganglia were removed. Asof took photographs of asof052 using a fluorescence microscope (Model: Leica M205 FA) to visualise the stain, using filter ET-CY3. The embryo was then incubated overnight at 37°C in PBS.


Details of the dyes used are below.

DiI = DiIC18(3)
Catalogue = D3911 Invitrogen
Lot = 454239
Note: this is the DiI that is spiky not granular.

The DiI may have been mixed with a very small amount of another dye: DiIC18(3).
Catalogue = D282 Invitrogen
Lot = 21522W
Note: This is the granular dye.


