---
layout: post
title: asof016
---

# Embryo asof016

The aim of this work was to generate data to be used for my honours thesis.

Embryo "asof016". Stage 27+ (unconfirmed). Work with this embryo began on 27/03/18, and ended on ????????????


27/03/18

Asof removed the embryo from 4% pf in PB 0.1M solution, and covered the embryo with PBS. Asof staged the embryo according to Hamburger and Hamilton, 1992. The features used to stage the embryo are described below.

## asof016 staging features:

- the beginning of a bill is evident (~27)
- bulges "c", "e" and "f" of the pharyngeal arches have a similar shape to the stage 28 diagram in Hamburger and Hamilton, 1992. There is a distinct gap between bulges "c" and "f", shaped like that shown in the aforementioned diagram.
- the outlines of three toes can be seen (27-28)
- the toe and digital plates are pointed (27-28)

Since the embryo had many features which seemed halfway between a stage 27 and a stage 28 embryo, overall asof016 was put as a 27+ stage (unconfirmed).

Asof removed the midbrain and the roof plate of the hindbrain. Asof then dissected to expose the trigeminal and facial ganglia on both sides of the embryo. Particularly the facial ganglia may have been incorrectly identified, as mfk did not check them. Asof injected both trigeminal ganglia with concentrated red DiI pressure injection with methanol. The dye used was more concentrated than used for past embryos, like that used for the asof014 injection. There was some contamination around the left (embryo p.o.v.) trigeminal ganglion, confirmed using the fluorescence microscope, and shown in image asof016_001 at the end of this entry. The embryo was incubated for 2 days at 37°C in PBS.

Details of the dyes used are below.

DiI = DiIC18(3)
Catalogue = D3911 Invitrogen
Lot = 454239
Note: this is the DiI that is spiky not granular.

The DiI was mixed somewhat with another dye: DiIC18(3).
Catalogue = D282 Invitrogen
Lot = 21522W
Note: This is the granular dye.


