---
layout: post
title: asof029
---

# Embryo asof029

The aim of this work was to determine whether cryoprotecting in sucrose had an effect on unspecific DiI labelling. 

Embryo "asof029". Stage 23+ (unconfirmed). Work with this embryo began on 11/06/18, and ended on ???.


11/06/18

Asof removed the embryo from 4% pf in PB 0.1M solution and covered the embryo with 0.01M PBS. Asof removed the amniotic sac and staged the embryo according to Hamburger and Hamilton, 1992. The features used to stage the embryo are described below.

## asof029 staging features:
- pharyngeal arches overall shape resembles a stage 23
- wing and leg buds are distinctly longer than they are wide (24)

Overall, asof029 was put at a stage 23+ (unconfirmed).

Asof removed the midbrain and the roof plate of the hindbrain. Asof then dissected to expose the trigeminal ganglia on both sides of the embryo. Asof injected both trigeminal ganglia with concentrated red DiI pressure injection with methanol. The dye was very concentrated, as asof had added large crystals to the well from the bottle of DiI straight before the injection. Dye was injected until the trigeminal ganglia were too perforated to allow further injections (although this happened after fewer injections than in past embryos). The left (embryo p.o.v.) trigeminal ganglion was then removed as a control, and the contamination was cleared. Asof took photographs of asof028 using a fluorescence microscope (Model: Leica M205 FA) to visualise the stain, using filter ET-CY3. The embryo was then incubated for 2 days at 37°C in PBS.

