---
layout: post
title: asof070
---

# Embryo asof070

The aim of this work was to generate an embryo with labelled Vth cranial nerve neurons for use in imaging motor neurons in a wholemount.

Embryo "asof070". Stage 24+ (unconfirmed). Work with this embryo began on 17/09/18, and ended on 18/09/18.

Specifics of injection:
- Tried to replicate the injection procedure of asof037 and asof038
- During injection, the needle was pushed into ganglion, and then retracted slightly before ejecting dye (this meant dye could be injected without requiring a great amount of force)
- This embryo was dissected quite carefully so as not to damage or remove the nerve fibres
- As much dye as possible without majorly damaging the ganglion was injected into each ganglion
- Large crystals of DiI are still present in the well, so the dye was highly concentrated (more small crystals added 17/09/18)
- Both ganglia were injected from their medial aspect
- The right VIIIth ganglion was injected twice
- Both injections into the right ganglion contained only pink dye
- The motor root could be seen labelled on the right V ganglion


17/09/18

Asof removed the embryo from 4% pf in PB 0.1M solution and covered the embryo with 0.01M PBS. Asof removed the amniotic sac and staged the embryo according to Hamburger and Hamilton, 1992. The features used to stage the embryo are described below.

## asof070 staging features:
- the overall shape of the pharyngeal arches is indicative of stage 24+ (protuberance c has a shape very characteristic of stage 25, but e has not become fully pointed and is not centred between f and c - it is much closer to f)
- leg and wing buds are the correct length and shape for stage 24 (their contour does not have two points, unlike stage 25)

Overall, asof070 was put at a stage 24+ (unconfirmed).

Asof removed the midbrain and the roof plate of the hindbrain. Asof then dissected to expose the trigeminal ganglia on both sides of the embryo. Asof injected both trigeminal ganglia with concentrated red DiI by pressure injection with methanol. The left ganglion was removed as a control, and then the contamination was cleared. Asof took photographs of asof070 using a fluorescence microscope (Model: Leica M205 FA) to visualise the stain, using filter ET-CY3. The embryo was then incubated overnight at 37°C in PBS.


Details of the dyes used are below.

DiI = DiIC18(3)
Catalogue = D3911 Invitrogen
Lot = 454239
Note: this is the DiI that is spiky not granular.

The DiI may have been mixed with a very small amount of another dye: DiIC18(3).
Catalogue = D282 Invitrogen
Lot = 21522W
Note: This is the granular dye.

